Without a word the three fell in behind the officer, whose face had
taken on an unfamiliar stony grimness. MacIan wondered whether it was
anger at him, or fear of what they might get in the swamp. Then he
shrugged; the young cub would have to follow his own trail, wherever it
led. And MacIan took a stern comfort from this thought. His own feet
were irrevocably directed; there was no doubt, no turning back. He'd
never have again to go through what Lehn was going through. All he had
to do was wait.

The plank bridge groaned under them, almost touching the water in the
moat. Most ingenious, that moat. The Nahali could swim it in their
sleep, normally, but when the conductor rods along the bottom were
turned on, they literally burned out their circuits from an overload.
The swamp-rats packed a bigger potential than any Earthly electric eel.

Ian MacIan, looking at the lights of the squalid village that lay below
the fort, reflected that the Nahali had at least one definitely human
trait. The banging of a three-tiered Venusian piano echoed on the
heavy air, along with shouts and laughter that indicated a free flow
of "swamp juice." This link in the chain of stations surrounding the
swamplands was fully garrisoned only during the rains, and the less
warlike Nahali were busy harvesting what they could from the soldiers
and the rabble that came after them.

Queer creatures, the swamp-rats, with their ruby eyes and iridescent
scales. Nature, in adapting them to their wet, humid environment, had
left them somewhere between warm-blooded mammals and cold-blooded
reptiles, anthropoid in shape, man-sized, capricious. The most
remarkable thing about them was their breathing apparatus, each
epithelial cell forming a tiny electrolysis plant to extract oxygen
from water. Since they lived equally on land and in water, and since
the swamp air was almost a mist, it suited them admirably. That was why
they had to wait for the rains to go raiding in the fertile uplands;
and that was why hundreds of Interworld Legionnaires had to swelter on
the strip of soggy ground between swamp and plateau to stop them.

MacIan was last in line. Just as his foot left the planks, four heads
jerked up as one, facing to the darkening sky.