He waited a second, with the rain drumming on his waterproof coverall,
dripping from the ends of his fair mustache. The others were obedient,
Bhak a great grinning hulk between the two slighter men. Lehn went on
calmly.

"Someone has sold us out to the Nahali. That's how I know they won't
attack until they get the help they're waiting for. I had to find
out, if possible, what preparations they have made for destroying our
electrical supply, which is our only vulnerable point. But I had a
double purpose in calling this party. Can you guess what it is?"

MacIan could. Lehn continued:

"The traitor had his price; escape from the Legion, from Venus, through
the swamp to Lhiva, where he can ship out on a tramp. His one problem
was to get away from the fort without being seen, since all leaves have
been temporarily cancelled."

Lehn's mist-grey eyes were icy. "I gave him that chance."

Bhak laughed, an empty, jarring road. "See? That's what the Nahali girl
said. She said, 'He can get what he needs, now. He'll get away before
the rains, probably with a patrol; then our people can attack.' I know
what he needed. Money! And I want it."

"Shut up!" Lehn's electro-gun gestured peremptorily. "I want the truth
of this. Which one of you is the traitor?"

Thekla's pointed white teeth gleamed. "MacIan loves the Legion, sir.
_He_ couldn't be guilty."

Lehn's gaze crossed MacIan's briefly, and again the Scot had a fleeting
glimpse of something softer beneath the new hardness. It was something
that took him back across time to a day when he had been a green
subaltern in the Terran Guards, and a hard-bitten, battle-tempered
senior officer had filled the horizon for him.

It was the something that had made Lehn offer him a chance, when
his trap was set and sprung. It was the something that was going to
make Lehn harder on him now than on either Bhak or Thekla. It was
hero-worship.